---
layout: posts61bl
title:  "Tutoring Section 12: Sorting"
category: 61bl
---

## Comparison Based and Counting Based Sorts

This is our last quiz section! Today we will be going over one of the most commonplace operations: sorting. There are a diverse set of algorithms to sort. We generally can bin them into two classes: comparison based and counting based sorting. **Comparison** based sorting is the most intuitive. We will be comparing elements with each other to create a sorted collection. The lower bound for comparison based sorts is roughly O(Nlog(N)) where QuickSort and MergeSort are normally the most used and considered as efficient. Another class of counting is **Counting** where we will be using the counts for different groups of element. The most used counting based sorting are **MSD and LSD Radix Sort** whose runtimes depend on the number of passes it ought to make and the count sort per iteration. These are extremely powerful tools that when used a correct base/radix, can obtain a linear runtime.

Lastly, I really wanted to congratulate you all for almost being done with the class. I am certain it was a stressful experience, but you got through it. I hope this was a fun and educating summer that will encourage you to start even cooler projects with the tools you gained. Hopefully, I will see you all again at some point. Let's not act like strangers.


**Resources**
- [Worksheet Week 12](/assets/docs/Worksheet12Tutoring.pdf)
- [Worksheet Week 12 Solutions](/assets/docs/Worksheet12Solutions.pdf)
- [Section Notes Template](/assets/docs/MiniLec12.pdf)
- [Powerpoint](/assets/docs/MiniLec12.pptx)
- [Video Solutions](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1ES8VSiDf0UIpQiKauDXyTcmBKYirPlz)

### Note: The tutoring worksheets are property of CS61B(L) and are solely intended for the purpose of personal use.
